# 3813-assignment
## Git HubLink 
https://github.com/DicanGuo/3813-assignment.git


# Chat System

## Git
### Git Layout
The git repository contains project folder and a README file. Angular app is in the project folder and the node server is in the server folder.
Default branch is main branch which is the latest convension.

### Version Control Approach
I commit when small features are achieved. Such as adding a form in html. This ensures me able to revert back to a specific version that all implemented features are functioning without any error.

When there is a complex issue occured where lots of changes are needed, a branch is created to solve the issue. Thus, the code is more clean and it allows me to trace back the changes I made at the specific time. When the issue is solved, I will merge the branch back to main since I am the only developer in this project.

## Data Structure
<!--  Describe the main data structures used in the program. For example, how the users and groups are represented. -->
Data for this project are stored using MongoDB. The name of the database is 3813.


### Collections
Collections including credentials, groups, and channels.

### credentials
In credentials collection, each document represents a user. Each user have '_id', 'id', 'name', 'password', 'role', and 'email' entities. The _id is unique id generated by mongodb, id is also an unique number id of the user but mainly used for frontend as identifier. 
'_id', 'id', and 'name' are all unique. There are validations in both front end and back end to ensure no duplicate values.
There is two types of role, super and user. The "role" of group admin and group assis is defined in groups collection.

### groups
Group details are stored in groups collection. The entities including '_id', 'id', 'groupusers', 'groupassis', and 'groupadmin'.

'_id' is unique id generated by Mongodb.

'id' is the unique number id of a group, it is used as indentifier for front end when searching or modifying the group.

'groupusers' is an array that includes the user names of users that belongs to a certain group. Only users in the group can have access to the group by design.

'groupadmin'  is an array that  includes user names of group admins. Group admins have the permission to create a group wich is authenticate by role. A group admin can also add users to a group and remove users out of a group. They also have the permission of creating channels within groups. By design, they are able to add or remove users from channels as well.

'groupassis' includes username of group assistants. A group assistant will have the permission of adding or remiving users from channels within a group. They can also create channels for groups.

### channels
Channels have entities of '_id', 'id', 'groupid', and 'channelusers'.

'_id' is unique id generated by Mongodb.

'id' is the unique number id of the channel used as identifier when searching and modifying the channel. 

'groupid' is the group id of the group that a channel belongs to.

'channelusers' includes all the users that have access to the channel.


## REST API
<!-- The Angular front end should communicate with the Node.js server using a REST API. Describe each route provided, parameters, return values, and what it does. -->
The server is placed under the chat app folder for convenience. The main interaction used for communication between front end and back end is the HttpRequests. Since the project is local project, here the server is using and listening to the port 3000. The Angular app instead is hosting on port 4200. Mongodb is hosting on port 27017.
### router
Multiple routers are created to seperate the functions and data transmitted. Ideally it can reduce the traffic to increase the speed of data transmission. Certain data is required and sent back to front. The requirement of data is different from route to route.

1. auth route is used for user log in authentication. In the http request, user name and password will be passed to the server. On the server side, the server will connects to the database and retreive the user information. After that, the user credential will be matched with the information in the database and return the validation results to the front end.

3. createChannel route is used for creating a channel. A group object is required and sent from front end. If the group is valid, the server will connect to the database and retreive the channel information within the group and will generate a new channel with a unique channel ID. Results will be sent back to the front end.

4. createGroup route is for creating group. In front end, there is a form implemented requiring user input a user, an admin, and an assistant for the group. Admin is mandatory input field. The data is sent and fetched by server. After validation, a unique number id will be generated. The data will be written to database. An array of updated groups with validation value and message will be sent back to front end.

4. createUser route is for creating users. In front end, there is a form implemented requiring user name and password. The data is sent and fetched by server. After validation, if success, a unique number id will be generated, the data will be written to database. An array of updated user list with validation value and message will be sent back to front end.

5. deleteChannel is used for deleting a channel. A group object and channel object are required and sent from front end. The system will validate the group details and channel details. The server will connects to the database and delete the channel searching by id. If valid, the server will connects to the database and delete the channel using query. Updated channel arrays will be sent back to front end with valdation value and message.

6. deleteGroup route is used for deleting a group. A group object is sent from front end and validated at server side. The server will connects to the database and delete the group searching by id. If success, the group will be deleted from the database. An array of updated group will be sent back to front end with valdation value and message.

7. deleteUser route is used for deleting a user. A user object is sent from front end and validated at back end. The server will connects to the database and delete the user searching by id. If success, the user will be deleted from the database. An array of updated users will be sent back to front end with valdation value and message.

2. getChannel route is used to fetch channel details from database. An object of the target group will be sent to server and server will connects to the database and find the documents of channels that includes the group id passing in. An array that contains all channel information is sent back to front end.

2. getGroup route is used to fetch group details from database. A http request will be sent to server and server will connects to the database and find the documents of all groups. An array that contains all group information is sent back to front end.

2. getUser route is used to fetch user details from database. A http request will be sent to server and server will connects to the database and find the documents of all users. An array that contains all group information is sent back to front end.

12. updateChannel route is used for admins adding or removing users to the channels. An array of updated channels will be sent back to front end with valdation value and message.

13. updateGroup route is used for admins adding users to a group or assigning a user as group admin or group assistant in the group. An array of updated groups will be sent back to front end with valdation value and message.


## Angular Architecture
<!-- Describe your Angular architecture in terms of components, services, and models. -->
### Components
#### app
app component is used as basic component with global navigation bar. Navigation links are restricted to roles. Only user with permission can see User Management page and Group Management page.
By default, user will be asked to login and redirect to log in page.

#### channel
channel component displays all the channels that is visible to user. For normal users, only Group information and channel ID, members name displayed. There is also a button for going into each channel for chatting with channel members. For admins, there are buttons for creating a chennel, deleting a channel, add or remove users from channels. 

#### chat
chat component displays the chat room that allows channel members to chat with texts.

#### create-group
create-group component displays a form for admins to create a group. A group user, a group assistant, and a group admin is required. For more users, admins can add users in group page. When creation is successful, user will be redirected back to group list page.

#### create-user
create-user component provides a form for admins to create a new user with usrename and password.

#### group
group component provides a list of all visible groups. Admins can create, delete, or edit groups. Edit button will redirect to the edit group page. Admin functions are hidden to the normal users.

#### home
home page displays user profile after login. Before login, it displays a login button with text info asking user to login.

#### login
login page is simply a form allows user to input username and password to login.

#### update-channel
update-channel component displays all users belongs to the channel. Admins can add or remove user to the channel.

#### update-group
update-group component displays the users, admins, and assistants of the group. Admins will have buttons to assign user or remove user as group user, group admin, or group assistant.

#### user-management
user-management, admins have permission to go to user management page. In this page all user info are listed, and admins can create or delet a user here.

### Services
#### Sockets
Sockets are used to retreive data from and send data to server reactively. It allows users to live communicate inside the channels.
When user send a text input, the socket service send it to the server and retreive data sent from other users.

Socket is used for chat room feature. The messages sent to server will be listened by the sockets and giving certain response.
Socket will using user id and channel id to create caht rooms.
Messages sent in the channel will be broadcast to other users in the sam channel.